
At the beginning of the semester, I felt excited because it would be another batch of major subjects to deal with. One of these subjects is Troubleshooting Systems. We were first handled by Engr. Galao but because he ended his teaching profession in our institution, we are now being handled by Engr. Perin. 
We started off this subject by reporting about troubleshooting a certain part of the entire system unit individually. My topic was about the speaker. I have learned that in troubleshooting speaker problems, it’s a good idea to know the basics of how your speaker system works. Of course, it is indeed necessary to plug the speakers into the speaker port and the sound continues down the wire into the little amplifier built into the speakers. Also, power from either the battery of the laptop or the wall outlet (desktop) enables the amplifier to boost the tiny signal coming from the computer into something strong enough to wiggle the magnets in the speakers, vibrating the speaker cone, which in turn vibrates the air, creating sound. It is also necessary to know what’s likely to fail. There are actually two reasons why you might not be getting sound. First is the software where in software problems can pop up due to anything from low power on a laptop to out-of-date drivers or sound preferences. Second is the hardware part. Hardware problems stem from physically broken or loose speaker parts. If the speakers’ hardware is broken, it’s extremely unlikely that you’ll be able to fix them on your own. It is also important to make sure that your laptop is plugged in. This step is usually being skipped if you are using desktop computer. 
Another thing to check is if there’s a connection of your computer and your headphones. Obviously, your computer speaker will not work if there’s external speaker device that is also connected. If all the things mentioned does not work, it is now time to restart your computer. If it still doesn’t work after restarting computer, try addressing software problems. If none of the following software tweaks work for your speakers, you’ll need to take your speaker or computer into a technical repair department and ask for assistance.
Actually, there is one thing that all computer parts have in common with regards to troubleshooting, at least in my opinion. That one thing is about the updating of system drivers. I think it highlights all the troubleshooting steps. I believe in that. As for my own experience, I really have to update the system drivers because there’s this particular problem that my laptop is encountering right now. But I think I would need a technical expert here because I might click incorrectly.
After all the reporting, we learned about why the Raspberry Pi was not working. It was because of the charger. The charger that was used wasn’t compatible with the version of Rpi that we were using. The previous charger was for a B+ model while the appropriate charger is for a B model. The model B uses between 1000 mA depending on what peripherals are connected. To test its functionality, we connected it to the right & compatible charger. 
We also had to search why the computer we were trying to troubleshoot was faulty or not working. Faulty RAM can be one of the possible causes and also faulty PCI cards. Misplaced front panel connections, missing power supply cables and PSU working improperly were also considered as possible causes.

To tell you honestly, I feel apologetic towards our instructor because I was always absent during his class. It’s just that we were busy with our research proposal and sometimes I was procrastinating. So once again, I apologize, Sir. 
Moving on with this 1000-word essay, I really thought at first that we are going to take the National Certificate (NC) II Assessment. I was a bit nervous when I heard about that because I was thinking that I’m not yet capable to do such assessment. And also, I’m not into the hardware field but still I need to face it because I’m a computer engineering student. As days passed, I felt excited about the said assessment. I really thought it would be pushed through, but unfortunately, it didn’t. It would be such a pleasure and opportunity to be able to get a national certificate in computer hardware troubleshooting. Maybe, soon, if given the chance, we would be motivated to try. 
With this subject, I also got to have my own account in Github. I’ve realized that I’ve been using Github most of the time especially if I’m looking for code references. It’s actually an advantage to have an account. It helps us have a certain organization with other people who are also knowledgeable in programming. I thought at first that creating a Github account is not free but since Engr. Perin gave us an activity, I learned that it’s free. It was convenient and easy to use. Yes it was confusing in the first place but once you explore, it is a very friendly website. 
I am hoping for the best in our future as computer engineers. As a computer engineering student, this troubleshooting system is an essential ability. Unfortunately for me, I lack that ability. I hope also that in the future activities, I would be able to gain skills in troubleshooting. It would be enough for me to know about troubleshooting the software of the computer since I know for myself that I am not into hardware. 
Above all, I would like to take this opportunity to give gratitude to our instructor in this subject, Engr. Max Angelo Perin. He is such a kind and understanding instructor. He is approachable and I believe it is one of the good qualities of being an educator. Thank you, Sir, for this memorable subject with you. Thank you also to my classmates who are very determined in every activity that we do. In every examination that we had, we were very eager to pass. So thank you for everything and may we have a splendid summer! 




